---
slug: week-3-motivating-students
title: Week 3 - motivating students
unlisted: true
# authors: peter
# tags: [education]
---

How do you motivate those who choose to just do nothing?

<!--truncate-->

### What is working?
- Not writing consequences on the board (I think), though behaviour has become a bit more challenging
- Checklists for start / end lesson things to do
- Digital planner
- Boundaries - last week
- My ability to deliver a 5-period day and keep smiling
- Oat Milk in the maths office

### What needs work?
- Planning and boundaries
- Higher expectations for work?
- Coaching point: saving time when handing out sheets

The planning remains the biggest challenge. Last week, I managed to stick to the  working hours that I set myself and felt so much better. But it just takes one day to feel significantly worst. After a v busy weekend (wedding + tough mudder) the start of this week feels out of control again. It feels like I spent too long on Friday thinking about how to approach units I hadn't taught before and instead I should've just used  that time to churn out lessons as quickly as possible. It also feels like there's no time to second guess any of your choices, but I doubt every choice that I make when it comes to planning.

I'm experimenting with delivering the pre-planned lessons almost exactly as they are for my y7 classes, so I get a better sense of which bits I'd adapt. This is mostly working for the higher set Y7's but still feels limited on the quantity front of basics / processes.

Unsure how to support students that choose not to do any work at all. Some options:
- 'Parking' - might benefit other students, seems unlikely to develop any sort of motivation
- Contact home - delicate balance of my job to figure it out vs home knowing that student much better than I ever will, time consuming
- Speak to other teachers - time consuming
- Seating plan - isolate if it's them or the people they're near